third_party/terraform/website/docs/provider_reference.html.markdown, before:

---
layout: "google"
page_title: "Google Provider Configuration Reference"
sidebar_current: "docs-google-provider-reference"
description: |-
  Configuration reference for the Google provider for Terraform.
---

# Google Provider Configuration Reference

-> Try out Terraform 0.12 with the Google provider! `google` and `google-beta` are 0.12-compatible from `2.5.0` onwards.

The `google` and `google-beta` provider blocks are used to configure the
credentials you use to authenticate with GCP, as well as a default project and
location (`zone` and/or `region`) for your resources.

## Example Usage - Basic provider blocks

```hcl
provider "google" {
  credentials = "${file("account.json")}"
  project     = "my-project-id"
  region      = "us-central1"
  zone        = "us-central1-c"
}
```

```hcl
provider "google-beta" {
  credentials = "${file("account.json")}"
  project     = "my-project-id"
  region      = "us-central1"
  zone        = "us-central1-c"
}
```

## Example Usage - Using beta features with `google-beta` 

To use Google Cloud Platform features that are in beta, you need to both:

* Explicitly define a `google-beta` provider block

* explicitly set the provider for your resource to `google-beta`.

See [Provider Versions](https://terraform.io/docs/providers/google/provider_versions.html)
for a full reference on how to use features from different GCP API versions in
the Google provider.

```hcl
resource "google_compute_instance" "ga-instance" {
  provider = "google"

  # ...
}

resource "google_compute_instance" "beta-instance" {
  provider = "google-beta"

  # ...
}

provider "google-beta" {}
```


## Configuration Reference

The following attributes can be used to configure the provider. The quick
reference should be sufficient for most use cases, but see the full reference
if you're interested in more details. Both `google` and `google-beta` share the
same configuration. 

### Quick Reference

* `credentials` - (Optional) Either the path to or the contents of a
[service account key file] in JSON format. You can
[manage key files using the Cloud Console].

* `project` - (Optional) The default project to manage resources in. If another
project is specified on a resource, it will take precedence.

* `region` - (Optional) The default region to manage resources in. If another
region is specified on a regional resource, it will take precedence.

* `zone` - (Optional) The default zone to manage resources in. Generally, this
zone should be within the default region you specified. If another zone is
specified on a zonal resource, it will take precedence.

---

* `scopes` - (Optional) The list of OAuth 2.0 [scopes] requested when generating
an access token using the service account key specified in `credentials`.

* `access_token` - (Optional) A temporary [OAuth 2.0 access token] obtained from
the Google Authorization server, i.e. the `Authorization: Bearer` token used to
authenticate HTTP requests to GCP APIs. This is an alternative to `credentials`,
and ignores the `scopes` field. If both are specified, `access_token` will be
used over the `credentials` field.

* `{{service}}_custom_endpoint` - (Optional) The endpoint for a service's APIs,
such as `compute_custom_endpoint`. Defaults to the production GCP endpoint for
the service. This can be used to configure the Google provider to communicate
with GCP-like APIs such as [the Cloud Functions emulator](https://github.com/googlearchive/cloud-functions-emulator).
Values are expected to include the version of the service, such as
`https://www.googleapis.com/compute/v1/`.

### Full Reference

* `credentials` - (Optional) Either the path to or the contents of a
[service account key file] in JSON format. You can
[manage key files using the Cloud Console]. Your service account key file is
used to complete a two-legged OAuth 2.0 flow to obtain access tokens to
authenticate with the GCP API as needed; Terraform will use it to reauthenticate
automatically when tokens expire. Alternatively, this can be specified using the
`GOOGLE_CREDENTIALS` environment variable or any of the following ordered
by precedence.

    * GOOGLE_CREDENTIALS
    * GOOGLE_CLOUD_KEYFILE_JSON
    * GCLOUD_KEYFILE_JSON

    Using Terraform-specific [service accounts] to authenticate with GCP is the
    recommended practice when using Terraform. If no Terraform-specific
    credentials are specified, the provider will fall back to using
    [Google Application Default Credentials][adc]. To use them, you can enter
    the path of your service account key file in the
    `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` environment variable, or configure
    authentication through one of the following;

* If you're running Terraform from a GCE instance, default credentials
are automatically available. See
[Creating and Enabling Service Accounts for Instances][gce-service-account]
for more details.

* On your computer, you can make your Google identity available by
running [`gcloud auth application-default login`][gcloud adc]. This
approach isn't recommended- some APIs are not compatible with
credentials obtained through `gcloud`.

---

* `project` - (Optional) The default project to manage resources in. If another
project is specified on a resource, it will take precedence. This can also be
specified using the `GOOGLE_PROJECT` environment variable, or any of the
following ordered by precedence.

    * GOOGLE_PROJECT
    * GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT
    * GCLOUD_PROJECT
    * CLOUDSDK_CORE_PROJECT

---

* `region` - (Optional) The default region to manage resources in. If another
region is specified on a regional resource, it will take precedence.
Alternatively, this can be specified using the `GOOGLE_REGION` environment
variable or any of the following ordered by precedence.

    * GOOGLE_REGION
    * GCLOUD_REGION
    * CLOUDSDK_COMPUTE_REGION

---

* `zone` - (Optional) The default zone to manage resources in. Generally, this
zone should be within the default region you specified. If another zone is
specified on a zonal resource, it will take precedence. Alternatively, this can
be specified using the `GOOGLE_ZONE` environment variable or any of the
following ordered by precedence.

    * GOOGLE_ZONE
    * GCLOUD_ZONE
    * CLOUDSDK_COMPUTE_ZONE

---

* `access_token` - (Optional) A temporary [OAuth 2.0 access token] obtained from
the Google Authorization server, i.e. the `Authorization: Bearer` token used to
authenticate HTTP requests to GCP APIs. If both are specified, `access_token` will be
used over the `credentials` field. This is an alternative to `credentials`,
and ignores the `scopes` field. Alternatively, this can be specified using the
`GOOGLE_OAUTH_ACCESS_TOKEN` environment variable.

    -> These access tokens cannot be renewed by Terraform and thus will only
    work until they expire. If you anticipate Terraform needing access for
    longer than a token's lifetime (default `1 hour`), please use a service
    account key with `credentials` instead.

---

* `scopes` - (Optional) The list of OAuth 2.0 [scopes] requested when generating
an access token using the service account key specified in `credentials`.

    By default, the following scopes are configured:

    * https://www.googleapis.com/auth/compute
    * https://www.googleapis.com/auth/cloud-platform
    * https://www.googleapis.com/auth/ndev.clouddns.readwrite
    * https://www.googleapis.com/auth/devstorage.full_control

---

* `{{service}}_custom_endpoint` - (Optional) The endpoint for a service's APIs,
such as `compute_custom_endpoint`. Defaults to the production GCP endpoint for
the service. This can be used to configure the Google provider to communicate
with GCP-like APIs such as [the Cloud Functions emulator](https://github.com/googlearchive/cloud-functions-emulator).
Values are expected to include the version of the service, such as
`https://www.googleapis.com/compute/v1/`.

~> Support for custom endpoints is on a best-effort basis. The underlying
endpoint and default values for a resource can be changed at any time without
being considered a breaking change.

A full list of configurable keys, their default value (in the `google` provider
followed by `google-beta` if they differ), and an environment variable that can
be used for configuration are below:

* `access_context_manager_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_ACCESS_CONTEXT_MANAGER_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://accesscontextmanager.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `app_engine_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_APP_ENGINE_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://appengine.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `bigquery_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_BIGQUERY_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://www.googleapis.com/bigquery/v2/`
* `bigtable_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_BIGTABLE_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://bigtableadmin.googleapis.com/v2/`
* `cloud_billing_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_CLOUD_BILLING_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://cloudbilling.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `cloud_build_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_CLOUD_BUILD_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://cloudbuild.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `cloud_functions_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_CLOUD_FUNCTIONS_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://cloudfunctions.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `cloud_iot_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_CLOUD_IOT_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://cloudiot.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `cloud_scheduler_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_CLOUD_SCHEDULER_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://cloudscheduler.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `composer_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_COMPOSER_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://composer.googleapis.com/v1beta1/`
* `compute_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_COMPUTE_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://www.googleapis.com/compute/v1/` | `https://www.googleapis.com/compute/beta/`
* `compute_beta_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_COMPUTE_BETA_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://www.googleapis.com/compute/beta/`
* `container_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_CONTAINER_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://container.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `container_beta_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_CONTAINER_BETA_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://container.googleapis.com/v1beta1/`
* `dataproc_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_DATAPROC_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://dataproc.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `dataproc_beta_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_DATAPROC_BETA_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://dataproc.googleapis.com/v1beta2/`
* `dataflow_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_DATAFLOW_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://dataflow.googleapis.com/v1b3/`
* `dns_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_DNS_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://www.googleapis.com/dns/v1/` | `https://www.googleapis.com/dns/v1beta2/`
* `dns_beta_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_DNS_BETA_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://www.googleapis.com/dns/v1beta2/`
* `filestore_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_FILESTORE_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://file.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `firestore_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_FIRESTORE_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://firestore.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `iam_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_IAM_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://iam.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `iam_credentials_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_IAM_CREDENTIALS_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://iamcredentials.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `kms_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_KMS_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://cloudkms.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `logging_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_LOGGING_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://logging.googleapis.com/v2/`
* `monitoring_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_MONITORING_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://monitoring.googleapis.com/v3/`
* `pubsub_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_PUBSUB_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://pubsub.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `redis_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_REDIS_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://redis.googleapis.com/v1/` | `https://redis.googleapis.com/v1beta1/`
* `resource_manager_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_RESOURCE_MANAGER_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://cloudresourcemanager.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `resource_manager_v2beta1_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_RESOURCE_MANAGER_V2BETA1_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://cloudresourcemanager.googleapis.com/v2beta1/`
* `runtimeconfig_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_RUNTIMECONFIG_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://runtimeconfig.googleapis.com/v1beta1/`
* `service_management_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_SERVICE_MANAGEMENT_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://servicemanagement.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `service_networking_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_SERVICE_NETWORKING_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://servicenetworking.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `service_usage_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_SERVICE_USAGE_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://serviceusage.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `source_repo_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_SOURCE_REPO_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://sourcerepo.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `spanner_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_SPANNER_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://spanner.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `sql_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_SQL_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://www.googleapis.com/sql/v1beta4/`
* `storage_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_STORAGE_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://www.googleapis.com/storage/v1/`
* `storage_transfer_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_STORAGE_TRANSFER_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://storagetransfer.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `tpu_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_TPU_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://tpu.googleapis.com/v1/`

The following keys are available exclusively in the `google-beta` provider:

* `binary_authorization_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_BINARY_AUTHORIZATION_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://binaryauthorization.googleapis.com/v1beta1/`
* `container_analysis_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_CONTAINER_ANALYSIS_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://containeranalysis.googleapis.com/v1beta1/`
* `iap_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_IAP_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://iap.googleapis.com/v1beta1/`
* `monitoring_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_MONITORING_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://monitoring.googleapis.com/v3/`
* `security_scanner_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_SECURITY_SCANNER_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://websecurityscanner.googleapis.com/v1beta/`

-> Note that some endpoints are a versioned variant of another. These exist in
cases where the `google` provider uses multiple distinct endpoints, and both
need to be set. Additionally, in `google-beta`, they'll often use the same value
as their versioned counterpart but that won't necessarily always be the case.

[OAuth 2.0 access token]: https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/OAuth2
[service account key file]: https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys
[manage key files using the Cloud Console]: https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/serviceaccountkey
[adc]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/production
[gce-service-account]: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/authentication
[gcloud adc]: https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/auth/application-default/login
[service accounts]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/getting-started
[GCE metadata]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/production#obtaining_credentials_on_compute_engine_kubernetes_engine_app_engine_flexible_environment_and_cloud_functions
[scopes]: https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/googlescopes

Commit message:

rename provider s/global_batching/batching, add provider reference

third_party/terraform/website/docs/provider_reference.html.markdown, after:

---
layout: "google"
page_title: "Google Provider Configuration Reference"
sidebar_current: "docs-google-provider-reference"
description: |-
  Configuration reference for the Google provider for Terraform.
---

# Google Provider Configuration Reference

-> Try out Terraform 0.12 with the Google provider! `google` and `google-beta` are 0.12-compatible from `2.5.0` onwards.

The `google` and `google-beta` provider blocks are used to configure the
credentials you use to authenticate with GCP, as well as a default project and
location (`zone` and/or `region`) for your resources.

## Example Usage - Basic provider blocks

```hcl
provider "google" {
  credentials = "${file("account.json")}"
  project     = "my-project-id"
  region      = "us-central1"
  zone        = "us-central1-c"
}
```

```hcl
provider "google-beta" {
  credentials = "${file("account.json")}"
  project     = "my-project-id"
  region      = "us-central1"
  zone        = "us-central1-c"
}
```

## Example Usage - Using beta features with `google-beta`

To use Google Cloud Platform features that are in beta, you need to both:

* Explicitly define a `google-beta` provider block

* explicitly set the provider for your resource to `google-beta`.

See [Provider Versions](https://terraform.io/docs/providers/google/provider_versions.html)
for a full reference on how to use features from different GCP API versions in
the Google provider.

```hcl
resource "google_compute_instance" "ga-instance" {
  provider = "google"

  # ...
}

resource "google_compute_instance" "beta-instance" {
  provider = "google-beta"

  # ...
}

provider "google-beta" {}
```


## Configuration Reference

The following attributes can be used to configure the provider. The quick
reference should be sufficient for most use cases, but see the full reference
if you're interested in more details. Both `google` and `google-beta` share the
same configuration.

### Quick Reference

* `credentials` - (Optional) Either the path to or the contents of a
[service account key file] in JSON format. You can
[manage key files using the Cloud Console].

* `project` - (Optional) The default project to manage resources in. If another
project is specified on a resource, it will take precedence.

* `region` - (Optional) The default region to manage resources in. If another
region is specified on a regional resource, it will take precedence.

* `zone` - (Optional) The default zone to manage resources in. Generally, this
zone should be within the default region you specified. If another zone is
specified on a zonal resource, it will take precedence.

---

* `scopes` - (Optional) The list of OAuth 2.0 [scopes] requested when generating
an access token using the service account key specified in `credentials`.

* `access_token` - (Optional) A temporary [OAuth 2.0 access token] obtained from
the Google Authorization server, i.e. the `Authorization: Bearer` token used to
authenticate HTTP requests to GCP APIs. This is an alternative to `credentials`,
and ignores the `scopes` field. If both are specified, `access_token` will be
used over the `credentials` field.

* `{{service}}_custom_endpoint` - (Optional) The endpoint for a service's APIs,
such as `compute_custom_endpoint`. Defaults to the production GCP endpoint for
the service. This can be used to configure the Google provider to communicate
with GCP-like APIs such as [the Cloud Functions emulator](https://github.com/googlearchive/cloud-functions-emulator).
Values are expected to include the version of the service, such as
`https://www.googleapis.com/compute/v1/`.

* `batching` - (Optional) This block controls batching GCP calls for groups of specific resource types. Structure is documented below.
~>**NOTE**: Batching is not implemented for the majority or resources/request types and is bounded by the core [`-parallelism`](https://www.terraform.io/docs/commands/apply.html#parallelism-n) flag. Adding or changing this config likely won't affect a Terraform run at all unless the user is creating enough of a particular type of resource to run into quota issues.

The `batching` fields supports:

* `send_after` - (Optional) A duration string representing the amount of time after which a request should be sent. Defaults to 10s.

* `disable_batching` - (Optional) Defaults to false. If true, disables batching and each request is sent normally.

### Full Reference

* `credentials` - (Optional) Either the path to or the contents of a
[service account key file] in JSON format. You can
[manage key files using the Cloud Console]. Your service account key file is
used to complete a two-legged OAuth 2.0 flow to obtain access tokens to
authenticate with the GCP API as needed; Terraform will use it to reauthenticate
automatically when tokens expire. Alternatively, this can be specified using the
`GOOGLE_CREDENTIALS` environment variable or any of the following ordered
by precedence.

    * GOOGLE_CREDENTIALS
    * GOOGLE_CLOUD_KEYFILE_JSON
    * GCLOUD_KEYFILE_JSON

    Using Terraform-specific [service accounts] to authenticate with GCP is the
    recommended practice when using Terraform. If no Terraform-specific
    credentials are specified, the provider will fall back to using
    [Google Application Default Credentials][adc]. To use them, you can enter
    the path of your service account key file in the
    `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` environment variable, or configure
    authentication through one of the following;

* If you're running Terraform from a GCE instance, default credentials
are automatically available. See
[Creating and Enabling Service Accounts for Instances][gce-service-account]
for more details.

* On your computer, you can make your Google identity available by
running [`gcloud auth application-default login`][gcloud adc]. This
approach isn't recommended- some APIs are not compatible with
credentials obtained through `gcloud`.

---

* `project` - (Optional) The default project to manage resources in. If another
project is specified on a resource, it will take precedence. This can also be
specified using the `GOOGLE_PROJECT` environment variable, or any of the
following ordered by precedence.

    * GOOGLE_PROJECT
    * GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT
    * GCLOUD_PROJECT
    * CLOUDSDK_CORE_PROJECT

---

* `region` - (Optional) The default region to manage resources in. If another
region is specified on a regional resource, it will take precedence.
Alternatively, this can be specified using the `GOOGLE_REGION` environment
variable or any of the following ordered by precedence.

    * GOOGLE_REGION
    * GCLOUD_REGION
    * CLOUDSDK_COMPUTE_REGION

---

* `zone` - (Optional) The default zone to manage resources in. Generally, this
zone should be within the default region you specified. If another zone is
specified on a zonal resource, it will take precedence. Alternatively, this can
be specified using the `GOOGLE_ZONE` environment variable or any of the
following ordered by precedence.

    * GOOGLE_ZONE
    * GCLOUD_ZONE
    * CLOUDSDK_COMPUTE_ZONE

---

* `access_token` - (Optional) A temporary [OAuth 2.0 access token] obtained from
the Google Authorization server, i.e. the `Authorization: Bearer` token used to
authenticate HTTP requests to GCP APIs. If both are specified, `access_token` will be
used over the `credentials` field. This is an alternative to `credentials`,
and ignores the `scopes` field. Alternatively, this can be specified using the
`GOOGLE_OAUTH_ACCESS_TOKEN` environment variable.

    -> These access tokens cannot be renewed by Terraform and thus will only
    work until they expire. If you anticipate Terraform needing access for
    longer than a token's lifetime (default `1 hour`), please use a service
    account key with `credentials` instead.

---

* `scopes` - (Optional) The list of OAuth 2.0 [scopes] requested when generating
an access token using the service account key specified in `credentials`.

    By default, the following scopes are configured:

    * https://www.googleapis.com/auth/compute
    * https://www.googleapis.com/auth/cloud-platform
    * https://www.googleapis.com/auth/ndev.clouddns.readwrite
    * https://www.googleapis.com/auth/devstorage.full_control

---

* `{{service}}_custom_endpoint` - (Optional) The endpoint for a service's APIs,
such as `compute_custom_endpoint`. Defaults to the production GCP endpoint for
the service. This can be used to configure the Google provider to communicate
with GCP-like APIs such as [the Cloud Functions emulator](https://github.com/googlearchive/cloud-functions-emulator).
Values are expected to include the version of the service, such as
`https://www.googleapis.com/compute/v1/`.

~> Support for custom endpoints is on a best-effort basis. The underlying
endpoint and default values for a resource can be changed at any time without
being considered a breaking change.

A full list of configurable keys, their default value (in the `google` provider
followed by `google-beta` if they differ), and an environment variable that can
be used for configuration are below:

* `access_context_manager_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_ACCESS_CONTEXT_MANAGER_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://accesscontextmanager.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `app_engine_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_APP_ENGINE_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://appengine.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `bigquery_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_BIGQUERY_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://www.googleapis.com/bigquery/v2/`
* `bigtable_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_BIGTABLE_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://bigtableadmin.googleapis.com/v2/`
* `cloud_billing_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_CLOUD_BILLING_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://cloudbilling.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `cloud_build_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_CLOUD_BUILD_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://cloudbuild.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `cloud_functions_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_CLOUD_FUNCTIONS_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://cloudfunctions.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `cloud_iot_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_CLOUD_IOT_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://cloudiot.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `cloud_scheduler_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_CLOUD_SCHEDULER_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://cloudscheduler.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `composer_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_COMPOSER_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://composer.googleapis.com/v1beta1/`
* `compute_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_COMPUTE_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://www.googleapis.com/compute/v1/` | `https://www.googleapis.com/compute/beta/`
* `compute_beta_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_COMPUTE_BETA_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://www.googleapis.com/compute/beta/`
* `container_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_CONTAINER_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://container.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `container_beta_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_CONTAINER_BETA_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://container.googleapis.com/v1beta1/`
* `dataproc_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_DATAPROC_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://dataproc.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `dataproc_beta_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_DATAPROC_BETA_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://dataproc.googleapis.com/v1beta2/`
* `dataflow_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_DATAFLOW_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://dataflow.googleapis.com/v1b3/`
* `dns_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_DNS_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://www.googleapis.com/dns/v1/` | `https://www.googleapis.com/dns/v1beta2/`
* `dns_beta_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_DNS_BETA_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://www.googleapis.com/dns/v1beta2/`
* `filestore_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_FILESTORE_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://file.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `firestore_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_FIRESTORE_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://firestore.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `iam_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_IAM_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://iam.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `iam_credentials_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_IAM_CREDENTIALS_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://iamcredentials.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `kms_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_KMS_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://cloudkms.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `logging_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_LOGGING_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://logging.googleapis.com/v2/`
* `monitoring_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_MONITORING_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://monitoring.googleapis.com/v3/`
* `pubsub_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_PUBSUB_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://pubsub.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `redis_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_REDIS_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://redis.googleapis.com/v1/` | `https://redis.googleapis.com/v1beta1/`
* `resource_manager_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_RESOURCE_MANAGER_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://cloudresourcemanager.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `resource_manager_v2beta1_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_RESOURCE_MANAGER_V2BETA1_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://cloudresourcemanager.googleapis.com/v2beta1/`
* `runtimeconfig_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_RUNTIMECONFIG_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://runtimeconfig.googleapis.com/v1beta1/`
* `service_management_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_SERVICE_MANAGEMENT_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://servicemanagement.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `service_networking_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_SERVICE_NETWORKING_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://servicenetworking.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `service_usage_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_SERVICE_USAGE_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://serviceusage.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `source_repo_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_SOURCE_REPO_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://sourcerepo.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `spanner_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_SPANNER_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://spanner.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `sql_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_SQL_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://www.googleapis.com/sql/v1beta4/`
* `storage_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_STORAGE_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://www.googleapis.com/storage/v1/`
* `storage_transfer_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_STORAGE_TRANSFER_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://storagetransfer.googleapis.com/v1/`
* `tpu_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_TPU_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://tpu.googleapis.com/v1/`

The following keys are available exclusively in the `google-beta` provider:

* `binary_authorization_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_BINARY_AUTHORIZATION_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://binaryauthorization.googleapis.com/v1beta1/`
* `container_analysis_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_CONTAINER_ANALYSIS_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://containeranalysis.googleapis.com/v1beta1/`
* `iap_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_IAP_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://iap.googleapis.com/v1beta1/`
* `monitoring_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_MONITORING_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://monitoring.googleapis.com/v3/`
* `security_scanner_custom_endpoint` (`GOOGLE_SECURITY_SCANNER_CUSTOM_ENDPOINT`) - `https://websecurityscanner.googleapis.com/v1beta/`

-> Note that some endpoints are a versioned variant of another. These exist in
cases where the `google` provider uses multiple distinct endpoints, and both
need to be set. Additionally, in `google-beta`, they'll often use the same value
as their versioned counterpart but that won't necessarily always be the case.

[OAuth 2.0 access token]: https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/OAuth2
[service account key file]: https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys
[manage key files using the Cloud Console]: https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/serviceaccountkey
[adc]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/production
[gce-service-account]: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/authentication
[gcloud adc]: https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/auth/application-default/login
[service accounts]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/getting-started
[GCE metadata]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/production#obtaining_credentials_on_compute_engine_kubernetes_engine_app_engine_flexible_environment_and_cloud_functions
[scopes]: https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/googlescopes

---

* `batching` - (Optional) Controls batching for specific GCP request types where users have encountered quota or speed issues using `count` with resources that affect the same GCP resource (e.g. `google_project_service`). It is not used for every resource/request type and can only group parallel similar calls for nodes at a similar traversal time in the graph during `terraform apply` (e.g. resources created using `count` that affect a single `project`). Thus, it is also bounded by the `terraform` [`-parallelism`](https://www.terraform.io/docs/commands/apply.html#parallelism-n) flag, as reducing the number of parallel calls will reduce the number of simultaneous requests being added to a batcher.

~> **NOTE**: Not every resource or request has had batching implemented for it.
In addition, if you're not completely sure you need it, you should avoid using or changing this configuration, as it doesn't affect runs for smaller configs or config using the majority of resources.

In general, batching is really only needed for resources where several requests are made at the same time to an underlying GCP resource protected by a fairly low default quota, or with very slow operations with slower eventual propagatation. This specifically has included the following example configs:

* enabling a large number of services with several `google_project_service` resources
* Setting global (project/org/folder) IAM policies using several `bindings` or `members` (batching not implemented yet)


The `batching` block supports the following fields.

* `send_after` - (Optional) A duration string representing the amount of time after which a request should be sent. Defaults to 10s. Should be a non-negative sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix, such as "300ms", "-1.5h" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".

* `disable_batching` - (Optional) Defaults to false. If true, disables global batching and each request is sent normally.
