# tpgtools

`tpgtools` is the generator responsible for creating DCL-based resources in the
Terraform Google Provider (TPG). The DCL provides [OpenAPI schema objects](https://swagger.io/specification/#schema-object)
to describe the available types, and `tpgtools` uses those to construct
Terraform resource schemas.

## Usage

`tpgtools` expects to run targeting a "root service directory", a dir-of-dirs
where the child dirs contain OpenApi specs for resources such as the `api/` path
above. Additionally, overrides are expected in a similar structure (as seen in
the `overrides/` path. For example:

```
go run . --path "api" --overrides "overrides"
```

This will output the file contents of each resource to stdout, for fast
iteration. You can filter by service and resource to make it more useful:

```
go run . --path "api" --overrides "overrides" --service redis --resource instance
```

To persist the output(s) to files you can specify an output path. This is the
most familiar experience for MMv1 developers. For example:

```
go run . --path "api" --overrides "overrides" --output ~/tpg-fork
```

If generation fails, an error should be logged showing what went wrong. The raw
output will be returned, and line numbers (if available in the error) will
correspond to the line numbers in the output.

### Version

You can specify a version such as `beta` using the `--version`:


```
go run . --path "api" --overrides "overrides" --output ~/tpg-fork --version "beta"
```

### Accessory Code

To generate accessory code such as `serializarion`, you can specify the `--mode`:

```
go run . --path "api" --overrides "overrides" --output ~/some/dir --mode "serialization"
```

## New Resource Guide

This guide is written to document the process for adding a resource to the Google Terraform Provider (TPG) after it has been added to the [DCL](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/declarative-resource-client-library).

### Adding Resource Overrides

Every resource added via tpgtools needs an override file for every version it is available at. This file should be empty, but must exist. A resource available at GA (TPG) must also exist at beta (TPGB) and needs a corresponding override file at beta. These override files are often identical between versions. This file should exist at tpgtools/overrides/$PRODUCT_NAME/$VERSION/$RESOURCE.yaml. For example, [this override](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/magic-modules/blob/main/tpgtools/overrides/assuredworkloads/beta/workload.yaml) exists for the product assuredworkloads resource workload at beta version.

Override files contain information on how the Terraform representation of the resource should be different from the DCL's representation. This could be naming or behavior differences, but for a new resource implemented through tpgtools there should be no differences from the DCL's representation.

### Adding Samples

Adding samples is essential for generating tests and documentation.

Start by copying the relevant samples from the DCL for your new resource. These will be added to
the [tpgtools/api folder](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/magic-modules/tree/main/tpgtools/api) under the relevant product.
These samples can be found under the samples/ folder within the DCL for the resource being added. For example, assured
workloads can be found [here](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/declarative-resource-client-library/tree/main/services/google/assuredworkloads/samples).

Re-serialize `serialization.go` to enable generating configs from samples by running:
```
make upgrade-dcl
make serialize
```

Create a meta.yaml file in the overrides directory for the resource. For example, 
[this meta.yaml](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/magic-modules/blob/main/tpgtools/overrides/assuredworkloads/samples/workload/meta.yaml) file exists for the assured workloads resource.
This file will merge with any tests you customize behavior
of the tests and examples generated from the samples data (injections, hiding, ect..)

If you need to hide sample from doc or hide a sample from docs you can do so here.
```
doc_hide:
  - basic.tf.tmpl
  - full.tf.tmpl
test_hide:
  - basic_workload.yaml
```

If you want to add additional rules the following options are currently supported within `meta.yaml`
```
ignore_read:
  - "billing_account"
  - "kms_settings"
  - "resource_settings"
  - "provisioned_resources_parent"
check:
  -  deleteAssuredWorkloadProvisionedResources(t)
extra_dependencies:
  - "time"
  - "log"
  - "strconv"
  - "github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-sdk/v2/helper/schema"
code_inject:
  - delete_assured_workload_provisioned_resources.go
doc_hide:
  - basic.tf.tmpl # basic_update.tf.tmpl auto hides
  - full.tf.tmpl
test_hide:
  - basic_workload.yaml
```

### Registering New Resources

There are a few files within mmv1 that use Ruby templates to generate shared files for the provider. One of these is provider.go (generated by [provider.go.erb](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/magic-modules/blob/main/mmv1/third_party/terraform/utils/provider.go.erb)) which contains the map of resources to their names within the provider. Currently these need to be updated by hand to add a new resource. There are a couple of other places that need to be modified as well to add endpoint information if the resource being added is part of a new product.

#### Adding to provider.go

Add the resource definition within the `ResourceMapWithErrors` map. There is currently a block of tpgtools resources, so adding to that block is preferred. If this resource is available only at a specific version (beta, private) then add version tags around the resource definition.

Additionally you may need to add a few line to provider.go for the endpoint if this resource is in a new product that doesn't have any other resources currently in the provider. Find the correct lines in the diff on `provider_dcl_endpoints.go` within the provider once it has been generated with the new resource.

### Adding Documentation

Provided you have added samples for the resource, documentation will be automatically generated based on the resource description in the DCL and examples will be generated from the samples for this resource. If you did not provide samples for the resource, then documentation will need to be written by hand.

### Handwritten Tests

Sometimes you may need to test unusual resource behavior in a way that does not fit well with generated tests. In this circumstance you can write a test file and add it [here](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/magic-modules/tree/main/mmv1/third_party/terraform/tests). These tests can be used for more granular testing of specific behavior and add custom checks. Tests in these files will not have examples generated for them, so handwritten tests should not be considered a replacement for samples.

## Development

`tpgtools` builds resources using Go Templates, with the templates stored under
the `templates/` directory. They're fed the `Resource` type, which contains
resource-level metadata and a list of `Property` types which represent top-level
fields in a Terraform resource. Additionally, `Property`s can contain other
`Property` objects to create a nested structure of fields.

`main.go` parses the OpenAPI schemas you've selected into Go structs and then
transforms them into `Resource`/`Property` before running them through Go
Templates.

### Overrides

Overrides are specified per-resource, with a directory structure parallel to the
OpenAPI specs. Inside each resource file is an unordered array of overrides made
up of an override type (like `CUSTOM_DESCRIPTION` or `VIRTUAL_FIELD`) as well as
a field they affect (if a field is omitted, they affect the resource) and an
optional `details` object that will be parsed for additional metadata.

For example, override entries will look like the following:

```yaml
- type: CUSTOM_DESCRIPTION
  field: lifecycle.rule.condition.age
  details:
    description: Custom description here.
```
