third_party/terraform/website/docs/r/app_engine_application.html.markdown, before:

---
layout: "google"
page_title: "Google: google_app_engine_application"
sidebar_current: "docs-google-app-engine-application"
description: |-
 Allows management of an App Engine application.
---

# google_app_engine_application

Allows creation and management of an App Engine application.

~> App Engine applications cannot be deleted once they're created; you have to delete the
   entire project to delete the application. Terraform will report the application has been
   successfully deleted; this is a limitation of Terraform, and will go away in the future.
   Terraform is not able to delete App Engine applications.

## Example Usage

```hcl
resource "google_project" "my_project" {
  name       = "My Project"
  project_id = "your-project-id"
  org_id     = "1234567"
}

resource "google_app_engine_application" "app" {
  project     = "${google_project.my_project.project_id}"
  location_id = "us-central"
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `location_id` - (Required) The [location](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/locations)
   to serve the app from.

* `auth_domain` - (Optional) The domain to authenticate users with when using App Engine's User API.

* `serving_status` - (Optional) The serving status of the app.

* `feature_settings` - (Optional) A block of optional settings to configure specific App Engine features:

  * `split_health_checks` - (Optional) Set to false to use the legacy health check instead of the readiness
    and liveness checks.

## Attributes Reference

In addition to the arguments listed above, the following computed attributes are
exported:

* `name` - Unique name of the app, usually `apps/{PROJECT_ID}`

* `url_dispatch_rule` - A list of dispatch rule blocks. Each block has a `domain`, `path`, and `service` field.

* `code_bucket` - The GCS bucket code is being stored in for this app.

* `default_hostname` - The default hostname for this app.

* `default_bucket` - The GCS bucket content is being stored in for this app.

* `gcr_domain` - The GCR domain used for storing managed Docker images for this app.

## Import

Applications can be imported using the ID of the project the application belongs to, e.g.

```
$ terraform import google_app_engine_application.app your-project-id
```

Commit message:

add project attr to app engine app docs

third_party/terraform/website/docs/r/app_engine_application.html.markdown, after:

---
layout: "google"
page_title: "Google: google_app_engine_application"
sidebar_current: "docs-google-app-engine-application"
description: |-
 Allows management of an App Engine application.
---

# google_app_engine_application

Allows creation and management of an App Engine application.

~> App Engine applications cannot be deleted once they're created; you have to delete the
   entire project to delete the application. Terraform will report the application has been
   successfully deleted; this is a limitation of Terraform, and will go away in the future.
   Terraform is not able to delete App Engine applications.

## Example Usage

```hcl
resource "google_project" "my_project" {
  name       = "My Project"
  project_id = "your-project-id"
  org_id     = "1234567"
}

resource "google_app_engine_application" "app" {
  project     = "${google_project.my_project.project_id}"
  location_id = "us-central"
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `project` - (Required) The project ID to create the application under.
   ~>**NOTE**: GCP only accepts project ID, not project number. If you are using number,
   you may get a "Permission denied" error.

* `location_id` - (Required) The [location](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/locations)
   to serve the app from.

* `auth_domain` - (Optional) The domain to authenticate users with when using App Engine's User API.

* `serving_status` - (Optional) The serving status of the app.

* `feature_settings` - (Optional) A block of optional settings to configure specific App Engine features:

  * `split_health_checks` - (Optional) Set to false to use the legacy health check instead of the readiness
    and liveness checks.

## Attributes Reference

In addition to the arguments listed above, the following computed attributes are
exported:

* `name` - Unique name of the app, usually `apps/{PROJECT_ID}`

* `url_dispatch_rule` - A list of dispatch rule blocks. Each block has a `domain`, `path`, and `service` field.

* `code_bucket` - The GCS bucket code is being stored in for this app.

* `default_hostname` - The default hostname for this app.

* `default_bucket` - The GCS bucket content is being stored in for this app.

* `gcr_domain` - The GCR domain used for storing managed Docker images for this app.

## Import

Applications can be imported using the ID of the project the application belongs to, e.g.

```
$ terraform import google_app_engine_application.app your-project-id
```
