third_party/terraform/website/docs/r/bigquery_dataset_iam.html.markdown, before:

---
layout: "google"
subcategory: "BigQuery"
page_title: "Google: google_bigquery_dataset_iam"
sidebar_current: "docs-google-bigquery-dataset-iam"
description: |-
 Collection of resources to manage IAM policy for a BigQuery dataset.
---

# IAM policy for BigQuery dataset

Three different resources help you manage your IAM policy for BigQuery dataset. Each of these resources serves a different use case:

* `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_policy`: Authoritative. Sets the IAM policy for the dataset and replaces any existing policy already attached.
* `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_binding`: Authoritative for a given role. Updates the IAM policy to grant a role to a list of members. Other roles within the IAM policy for the dataset are preserved.
* `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_member`: Non-authoritative. Updates the IAM policy to grant a role to a new member. Other members for the role for the dataset are preserved.

~> **Note:** These resources **cannot** be used with `google_bigquery_dataset_access` resources or the `access` field on `google_bigquery_dataset` or they will fight over what the policy should be.

~> **Note:** Using any of these resources will remove any authorized view permissions from the dataset. To assign and preserve authorized view permissions use the `google_bigquery_dataset_access` instead.

~> **Note:** Legacy BigQuery roles `OWNER` `WRITER` and `READER` **cannot** be used with any of these IAM resources. Instead use the full role form of: `roles/bigquery.dataOwner` `roles/bigquery.dataEditor` and `roles/bigquery.dataViewer`.

~> **Note:** `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_policy` **cannot** be used in conjunction with `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_binding` and `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_member` or they will fight over what your policy should be.

~> **Note:** `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_binding` resources **can be** used in conjunction with `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_member` resources **only if** they do not grant privilege to the same role.

## google\bigquery\_dataset\_iam\_policy

```hcl
data "google_iam_policy" "owner" {
  binding {
    role = "roles/dataOwner"

    members = [
      "user:jane@example.com",
    ]
  }
}

resource "google_bigquery_dataset_iam_policy" "dataset" {
  dataset_id  = "your-dataset-id"
  policy_data = data.google_iam_policy.owner.policy_data
}
```

## google\_bigquery\_dataset\_iam\_binding

```hcl
resource "google_bigquery_dataset_iam_binding" "reader" {
  dataset_id = "your-dataset-id"
  role       = "roles/bigquery.dataViewer"

  members = [
    "user:jane@example.com",
  ]
}
```

## google\_bigquery\_dataset\_iam\_member

```hcl
resource "google_bigquery_dataset_iam_member" "editor" {
  dataset_id = "your-dataset-id"
  role       = "roles/bigquery.dataEditor"
  member     = "user:jane@example.com"
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `dataset_id` - (Required) The dataset ID, in the form `projects/{project}/datasets/{dataset_id}`

* `member/members` - (Required) Identities that will be granted the privilege in `role`.
  Each entry can have one of the following values:
  * **allUsers**: A special identifier that represents anyone who is on the internet; with or without a Google account.
  * **allAuthenticatedUsers**: A special identifier that represents anyone who is authenticated with a Google account or a service account.
  * **user:{emailid}**: An email address that represents a specific Google account. For example, alice@gmail.com or joe@example.com.
  * **serviceAccount:{emailid}**: An email address that represents a service account. For example, my-other-app@appspot.gserviceaccount.com.
  * **group:{emailid}**: An email address that represents a Google group. For example, admins@example.com.
  * **domain:{domain}**: A G Suite domain (primary, instead of alias) name that represents all the users of that domain. For example, google.com or example.com.

* `role` - (Required) The role that should be applied. Only one
    `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_binding` can be used per role. Note that custom roles must be of the format
    `[projects|organizations]/{parent-name}/roles/{role-name}`.

* `policy_data` - (Required only by `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_policy`) The policy data generated by
  a `google_iam_policy` data source.

## Attributes Reference

In addition to the arguments listed above, the following computed attributes are
exported:

* `etag` - (Computed) The etag of the dataset's IAM policy.

## Import

IAM member imports use space-delimited identifiers; the resource in question, the role, and the account.  This member resource can be imported using the `dataset_id`, role, and account e.g.

```
$ terraform import google_bigquery_dataset_iam_member.dataset_iam "projects/your-project-id/datasets/dataset-id roles/viewer user:foo@example.com"
```

IAM binding imports use space-delimited identifiers; the resource in question and the role.  This binding resource can be imported using the `dataset_id` and role, e.g.

```
$ terraform import google_bigquery_dataset_iam_binding.dataset_iam "projects/your-project-id/datasets/dataset-id roles/viewer"
```

IAM policy imports use the identifier of the resource in question.  This policy resource can be imported using the `dataset_id`, role, and account e.g.

```
$ terraform import google_bigquery_dataset_iam_policy.dataset_iam projects/your-project-id/datasets/dataset-id
```

-> **Custom Roles**: If you're importing a IAM resource with a custom role, make sure to use the
 full name of the custom role, e.g. `[projects/my-project|organizations/my-org]/roles/my-custom-role`.

Commit message:

Add note on why a user would want bigquery_dataset_iam

third_party/terraform/website/docs/r/bigquery_dataset_iam.html.markdown, after:

---
layout: "google"
subcategory: "BigQuery"
page_title: "Google: google_bigquery_dataset_iam"
sidebar_current: "docs-google-bigquery-dataset-iam"
description: |-
 Collection of resources to manage IAM policy for a BigQuery dataset.
---

# IAM policy for BigQuery dataset

These resources are intended to convert the permissions system for BigQuery datasets to the standard IAM interface. For advanced usages, including [creating authorized views](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/share-access-views), please use either `google_bigquery_dataset_access` or the `access` field on `google_bigquery_dataset`.
Three different resources help you manage your IAM policy for BigQuery dataset. Each of these resources serves a different use case:

* `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_policy`: Authoritative. Sets the IAM policy for the dataset and replaces any existing policy already attached.
* `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_binding`: Authoritative for a given role. Updates the IAM policy to grant a role to a list of members. Other roles within the IAM policy for the dataset are preserved.
* `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_member`: Non-authoritative. Updates the IAM policy to grant a role to a new member. Other members for the role for the dataset are preserved.

~> **Note:** These resources **cannot** be used with `google_bigquery_dataset_access` resources or the `access` field on `google_bigquery_dataset` or they will fight over what the policy should be.

~> **Note:** Using any of these resources will remove any authorized view permissions from the dataset. To assign and preserve authorized view permissions use the `google_bigquery_dataset_access` instead.

~> **Note:** Legacy BigQuery roles `OWNER` `WRITER` and `READER` **cannot** be used with any of these IAM resources. Instead use the full role form of: `roles/bigquery.dataOwner` `roles/bigquery.dataEditor` and `roles/bigquery.dataViewer`.

~> **Note:** `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_policy` **cannot** be used in conjunction with `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_binding` and `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_member` or they will fight over what your policy should be.

~> **Note:** `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_binding` resources **can be** used in conjunction with `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_member` resources **only if** they do not grant privilege to the same role.

## google\bigquery\_dataset\_iam\_policy

```hcl
data "google_iam_policy" "owner" {
  binding {
    role = "roles/dataOwner"

    members = [
      "user:jane@example.com",
    ]
  }
}

resource "google_bigquery_dataset_iam_policy" "dataset" {
  dataset_id  = "your-dataset-id"
  policy_data = data.google_iam_policy.owner.policy_data
}
```

## google\_bigquery\_dataset\_iam\_binding

```hcl
resource "google_bigquery_dataset_iam_binding" "reader" {
  dataset_id = "your-dataset-id"
  role       = "roles/bigquery.dataViewer"

  members = [
    "user:jane@example.com",
  ]
}
```

## google\_bigquery\_dataset\_iam\_member

```hcl
resource "google_bigquery_dataset_iam_member" "editor" {
  dataset_id = "your-dataset-id"
  role       = "roles/bigquery.dataEditor"
  member     = "user:jane@example.com"
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `dataset_id` - (Required) The dataset ID, in the form `projects/{project}/datasets/{dataset_id}`

* `member/members` - (Required) Identities that will be granted the privilege in `role`.
  Each entry can have one of the following values:
  * **allUsers**: A special identifier that represents anyone who is on the internet; with or without a Google account.
  * **allAuthenticatedUsers**: A special identifier that represents anyone who is authenticated with a Google account or a service account.
  * **user:{emailid}**: An email address that represents a specific Google account. For example, alice@gmail.com or joe@example.com.
  * **serviceAccount:{emailid}**: An email address that represents a service account. For example, my-other-app@appspot.gserviceaccount.com.
  * **group:{emailid}**: An email address that represents a Google group. For example, admins@example.com.
  * **domain:{domain}**: A G Suite domain (primary, instead of alias) name that represents all the users of that domain. For example, google.com or example.com.

* `role` - (Required) The role that should be applied. Only one
    `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_binding` can be used per role. Note that custom roles must be of the format
    `[projects|organizations]/{parent-name}/roles/{role-name}`.

* `policy_data` - (Required only by `google_bigquery_dataset_iam_policy`) The policy data generated by
  a `google_iam_policy` data source.

## Attributes Reference

In addition to the arguments listed above, the following computed attributes are
exported:

* `etag` - (Computed) The etag of the dataset's IAM policy.

## Import

IAM member imports use space-delimited identifiers; the resource in question, the role, and the account.  This member resource can be imported using the `dataset_id`, role, and account e.g.

```
$ terraform import google_bigquery_dataset_iam_member.dataset_iam "projects/your-project-id/datasets/dataset-id roles/viewer user:foo@example.com"
```

IAM binding imports use space-delimited identifiers; the resource in question and the role.  This binding resource can be imported using the `dataset_id` and role, e.g.

```
$ terraform import google_bigquery_dataset_iam_binding.dataset_iam "projects/your-project-id/datasets/dataset-id roles/viewer"
```

IAM policy imports use the identifier of the resource in question.  This policy resource can be imported using the `dataset_id`, role, and account e.g.

```
$ terraform import google_bigquery_dataset_iam_policy.dataset_iam projects/your-project-id/datasets/dataset-id
```

-> **Custom Roles**: If you're importing a IAM resource with a custom role, make sure to use the
 full name of the custom role, e.g. `[projects/my-project|organizations/my-org]/roles/my-custom-role`.
