third_party/terraform/website/docs/r/dns_record_set.markdown, before:

---
layout: "google"
page_title: "Google: google_dns_record_set"
sidebar_current: "docs-google-dns-record-set"
description: |-
  Manages a set of DNS records within Google Cloud DNS.
---

# google\_dns\_record\_set

Manages a set of DNS records within Google Cloud DNS. For more information see [the official documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dns/records/) and
[API](https://cloud.google.com/dns/api/v1/resourceRecordSets).

~> **Note:** The provider treats this resource as an authoritative record set. This means existing records (including the default records) for the given type will be overwritten when you create this resource in Terraform. In addition, the Google Cloud DNS API requires NS records to be present at all times, so Terraform will not actually remove NS records during destroy but will report that it did.

## Example Usage

### Binding a DNS name to the ephemeral IP of a new instance:

```hcl
resource "google_dns_record_set" "frontend" {
  name = "frontend.${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.dns_name}"
  type = "A"
  ttl  = 300

  managed_zone = "${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.name}"

  rrdatas = ["${google_compute_instance.frontend.network_interface.0.access_config.0.nat_ip}"]
}

resource "google_compute_instance" "frontend" {
  name         = "frontend"
  machine_type = "g1-small"
  zone         = "us-central1-b"

  boot_disk {
    initialize_params {
      image = "debian-cloud/debian-9"
    }
  }

  network_interface {
    network       = "default"
    access_config = {}
  }
}

resource "google_dns_managed_zone" "prod" {
  name     = "prod-zone"
  dns_name = "prod.mydomain.com."
}
```

### Adding an A record

```hcl
resource "google_dns_record_set" "a" {
  name = "backend.${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.dns_name}"
  managed_zone = "${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.name}"
  type = "A"
  ttl  = 300

  rrdatas = ["8.8.8.8"]
}

resource "google_dns_managed_zone" "prod" {
  name     = "prod-zone"
  dns_name = "prod.mydomain.com."
}
```

### Adding an MX record

```hcl
resource "google_dns_record_set" "mx" {
  name = "${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.dns_name}"
  managed_zone = "${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.name}"
  type = "MX"
  ttl  = 3600

  rrdatas = [
    "1 aspmx.l.google.com.",
    "5 alt1.aspmx.l.google.com.",
    "5 alt2.aspmx.l.google.com.",
    "10 alt3.aspmx.l.google.com.",
    "10 alt4.aspmx.l.google.com."
  ]
}

resource "google_dns_managed_zone" "prod" {
  name     = "prod-zone"
  dns_name = "prod.mydomain.com."
}
```

### Adding an SPF record

Quotes (`""`) must be added around your `rrdatas` for a SPF record. Otherwise `rrdatas` string gets split on spaces.

```hcl
resource "google_dns_record_set" "spf" {
  name = "frontend.${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.dns_name}"
  managed_zone = "${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.name}"
  type = "TXT"
  ttl  = 300

  rrdatas = ["\"v=spf1 ip4:111.111.111.111 include:backoff.email-example.com -all\""]
}

resource "google_dns_managed_zone" "prod" {
  name     = "prod-zone"
  dns_name = "prod.mydomain.com."
}
```

### Adding a CNAME record

 The list of `rrdatas` should only contain a single string corresponding to the Canonical Name intended.

```hcl
resource "google_dns_record_set" "cname" {
  name = "frontend.${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.dns_name}"
  managed_zone = "${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.name}"
  type = "CNAME"
  ttl  = 300
  rrdatas = ["frontend.mydomain.com."]
}

resource "google_dns_managed_zone" "prod" {
  name        = "prod-zone"
  dns_name    = "prod.mydomain.com."
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `managed_zone` - (Required) The name of the zone in which this record set will
    reside.

* `name` - (Required) The DNS name this record set will apply to.

* `rrdatas` - (Required) The string data for the records in this record set
    whose meaning depends on the DNS type. For TXT record, if the string data contains spaces, add surrounding `\"` if you don't want your string to get split on spaces. To specify a single record value longer than 255 characters such as a TXT record for DKIM, add `\"\"` inside the Terraform configuration string (e.g. `"first255characters\"\"morecharacters"`).

* `ttl` - (Required) The time-to-live of this record set (seconds).

* `type` - (Required) The DNS record set type.

- - -

* `project` - (Optional) The ID of the project in which the resource belongs. If it
    is not provided, the provider project is used.

## Attributes Reference

Only the arguments listed above are exposed as attributes.

## Import

DNS record set can be imported using the `zone name`, `record name` and record `type`, e.g.

```
$ terraform import google_dns_record_set.frontend prod-zone/frontend.prod.mydomain.com./A
```

Note: The record name must include the trailing dot at the end.

Commit message:

allow importing dns record sets in any project

third_party/terraform/website/docs/r/dns_record_set.markdown, after:

---
layout: "google"
page_title: "Google: google_dns_record_set"
sidebar_current: "docs-google-dns-record-set"
description: |-
  Manages a set of DNS records within Google Cloud DNS.
---

# google\_dns\_record\_set

Manages a set of DNS records within Google Cloud DNS. For more information see [the official documentation](https://cloud.google.com/dns/records/) and
[API](https://cloud.google.com/dns/api/v1/resourceRecordSets).

~> **Note:** The provider treats this resource as an authoritative record set. This means existing records (including the default records) for the given type will be overwritten when you create this resource in Terraform. In addition, the Google Cloud DNS API requires NS records to be present at all times, so Terraform will not actually remove NS records during destroy but will report that it did.

## Example Usage

### Binding a DNS name to the ephemeral IP of a new instance:

```hcl
resource "google_dns_record_set" "frontend" {
  name = "frontend.${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.dns_name}"
  type = "A"
  ttl  = 300

  managed_zone = "${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.name}"

  rrdatas = ["${google_compute_instance.frontend.network_interface.0.access_config.0.nat_ip}"]
}

resource "google_compute_instance" "frontend" {
  name         = "frontend"
  machine_type = "g1-small"
  zone         = "us-central1-b"

  boot_disk {
    initialize_params {
      image = "debian-cloud/debian-9"
    }
  }

  network_interface {
    network       = "default"
    access_config = {}
  }
}

resource "google_dns_managed_zone" "prod" {
  name     = "prod-zone"
  dns_name = "prod.mydomain.com."
}
```

### Adding an A record

```hcl
resource "google_dns_record_set" "a" {
  name = "backend.${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.dns_name}"
  managed_zone = "${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.name}"
  type = "A"
  ttl  = 300

  rrdatas = ["8.8.8.8"]
}

resource "google_dns_managed_zone" "prod" {
  name     = "prod-zone"
  dns_name = "prod.mydomain.com."
}
```

### Adding an MX record

```hcl
resource "google_dns_record_set" "mx" {
  name = "${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.dns_name}"
  managed_zone = "${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.name}"
  type = "MX"
  ttl  = 3600

  rrdatas = [
    "1 aspmx.l.google.com.",
    "5 alt1.aspmx.l.google.com.",
    "5 alt2.aspmx.l.google.com.",
    "10 alt3.aspmx.l.google.com.",
    "10 alt4.aspmx.l.google.com."
  ]
}

resource "google_dns_managed_zone" "prod" {
  name     = "prod-zone"
  dns_name = "prod.mydomain.com."
}
```

### Adding an SPF record

Quotes (`""`) must be added around your `rrdatas` for a SPF record. Otherwise `rrdatas` string gets split on spaces.

```hcl
resource "google_dns_record_set" "spf" {
  name = "frontend.${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.dns_name}"
  managed_zone = "${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.name}"
  type = "TXT"
  ttl  = 300

  rrdatas = ["\"v=spf1 ip4:111.111.111.111 include:backoff.email-example.com -all\""]
}

resource "google_dns_managed_zone" "prod" {
  name     = "prod-zone"
  dns_name = "prod.mydomain.com."
}
```

### Adding a CNAME record

 The list of `rrdatas` should only contain a single string corresponding to the Canonical Name intended.

```hcl
resource "google_dns_record_set" "cname" {
  name = "frontend.${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.dns_name}"
  managed_zone = "${google_dns_managed_zone.prod.name}"
  type = "CNAME"
  ttl  = 300
  rrdatas = ["frontend.mydomain.com."]
}

resource "google_dns_managed_zone" "prod" {
  name        = "prod-zone"
  dns_name    = "prod.mydomain.com."
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `managed_zone` - (Required) The name of the zone in which this record set will
    reside.

* `name` - (Required) The DNS name this record set will apply to.

* `rrdatas` - (Required) The string data for the records in this record set
    whose meaning depends on the DNS type. For TXT record, if the string data contains spaces, add surrounding `\"` if you don't want your string to get split on spaces. To specify a single record value longer than 255 characters such as a TXT record for DKIM, add `\"\"` inside the Terraform configuration string (e.g. `"first255characters\"\"morecharacters"`).

* `ttl` - (Required) The time-to-live of this record set (seconds).

* `type` - (Required) The DNS record set type.

- - -

* `project` - (Optional) The ID of the project in which the resource belongs. If it
    is not provided, the provider project is used.

## Attributes Reference

Only the arguments listed above are exposed as attributes.

## Import

DNS record set can be imported using the `zone name`, `record name` and record `type`, with an optional `project`, e.g.

```
$ terraform import google_dns_record_set.frontend prod-zone/frontend.prod.mydomain.com./A
$ terraform import google_dns_record_set.frontend prod-project/prod-zone/frontend.prod.mydomain.com./A
```

Note: The record name must include the trailing dot at the end.
