third_party/terraform/website/docs/r/sql_database_instance.html.markdown, before:

---
subcategory: "Cloud SQL"
layout: "google"
page_title: "Google: google_sql_database_instance"
sidebar_current: "docs-google-sql-database-instance"
description: |-
  Creates a new SQL database instance in Google Cloud SQL.
---

# google\_sql\_database\_instance

Creates a new Google SQL Database Instance. For more information, see the [official documentation](https://cloud.google.com/sql/),
or the [JSON API](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/admin-api/v1beta4/instances).

~> **NOTE on `google_sql_database_instance`:** - First-generation instances have been
deprecated and should no longer be created, see [upgrade docs](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/upgrade-2nd-gen)
for more details.
To upgrade your First-generation instance, update your Terraform config that the instance has
* `settings.ip_configuration.ipv4_enabled=true`
* `settings.backup_configuration.enabled=true`
* `settings.backup_configuration.binary_log_enabled=true`.  
Apply the terraform config, then upgrade the instance in the console as described in the documentation.
Once upgraded, update the following attributes in your Terraform config to the correct value according to
the above documentation:
* `region`
* `database_version` (if applicable)
* `tier`  
Remove any fields that are not applicable to Second-generation instances:
* `settings.crash_safe_replication`
* `settings.replication_type`
* `settings.authorized_gae_applications`
And change values to appropriate values for Second-generation instances for:
* `activation_policy` ("ON_DEMAND" is no longer an option)
* `pricing_plan` ("PER_USE" is now the only valid option)
Change `settings.backup_configuration.enabled` attribute back to its desired value and apply as necessary.

~> **NOTE on `google_sql_database_instance`:** - Second-generation instances include a
default 'root'@'%' user with no password. This user will be deleted by Terraform on
instance creation. You should use `google_sql_user` to define a custom user with
a restricted host and strong password.

## Example Usage

### SQL Second Generation Instance

```hcl
resource "google_sql_database_instance" "master" {
  name             = "master-instance"
  database_version = "POSTGRES_11"
  region           = "us-central1"

  settings {
    # Second-generation instance tiers are based on the machine
    # type. See argument reference below.
    tier = "db-f1-micro"
  }
}
```

### Granular restriction of network access

```hcl
resource "google_compute_instance" "apps" {
  count        = 8
  name         = "apps-${count.index + 1}"
  machine_type = "f1-micro"

  boot_disk {
    initialize_params {
      image = "ubuntu-os-cloud/ubuntu-1804-lts"
    }
  }

  network_interface {
    network = "default"

    access_config {
      // Ephemeral IP
    }
  }
}

resource "random_id" "db_name_suffix" {
  byte_length = 4
}

locals {
  onprem = ["192.168.1.2", "192.168.2.3"]
}

resource "google_sql_database_instance" "postgres" {
  name             = "postgres-instance-${random_id.db_name_suffix.hex}"
  database_version = "POSTGRES_11"

  settings {
    tier = "db-f1-micro"

    ip_configuration {

      dynamic "authorized_networks" {
        for_each = google_compute_instance.apps
        iterator = apps

        content {
          name  = apps.value.name
          value = apps.value.network_interface.0.access_config.0.nat_ip
        }
      }

      dynamic "authorized_networks" {
        for_each = local.onprem
        iterator = onprem

        content {
          name  = "onprem-${onprem.key}"
          value = onprem.value
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Private IP Instance
~> **NOTE**: For private IP instance setup, note that the `google_sql_database_instance` does not actually interpolate values from `google_service_networking_connection`. You must explicitly add a `depends_on`reference as shown below.

```hcl
resource "google_compute_network" "private_network" {
  provider = google-beta

  name = "private-network"
}

resource "google_compute_global_address" "private_ip_address" {
  provider = google-beta

  name          = "private-ip-address"
  purpose       = "VPC_PEERING"
  address_type  = "INTERNAL"
  prefix_length = 16
  network       = google_compute_network.private_network.self_link
}

resource "google_service_networking_connection" "private_vpc_connection" {
  provider = google-beta

  network                 = google_compute_network.private_network.self_link
  service                 = "servicenetworking.googleapis.com"
  reserved_peering_ranges = [google_compute_global_address.private_ip_address.name]
}

resource "random_id" "db_name_suffix" {
  byte_length = 4
}

resource "google_sql_database_instance" "instance" {
  provider = google-beta

  name   = "private-instance-${random_id.db_name_suffix.hex}"
  region = "us-central1"

  depends_on = [google_service_networking_connection.private_vpc_connection]

  settings {
    tier = "db-f1-micro"
    ip_configuration {
      ipv4_enabled    = false
      private_network = google_compute_network.private_network.self_link
    }
  }
}

provider "google-beta" {
  region = "us-central1"
  zone   = "us-central1-a"
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `region` - (Optional) The region the instance will sit in. Note, Cloud SQL is not
    available in all regions - choose from one of the options listed [here](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/instance-locations).
    A valid region must be provided to use this resource. If a region is not provided in the resource definition,
    the provider region will be used instead, but this will be an apply-time error for instances if the provider
    region is not supported with Cloud SQL. If you choose not to provide the `region` argument for this resource,
    make sure you understand this.

* `settings` - (Required) The settings to use for the database. The
    configuration is detailed below.

- - -

* `database_version` - (Optional, Default: `MYSQL_5_6`) The MySQL, PostgreSQL or
SQL Server (beta) version to use. Supported values include `MYSQL_5_6`,
`MYSQL_5_7`, `POSTGRES_9_6`,`POSTGRES_11`, `SQLSERVER_2017_STANDARD`,
`SQLSERVER_2017_ENTERPRISE`, `SQLSERVER_2017_EXPRESS`, `SQLSERVER_2017_WEB`.
[Database Version Policies](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/sqlserver/db-versions)
includes an up-to-date reference of supported versions.

* `name` - (Optional, Computed) The name of the instance. If the name is left
    blank, Terraform will randomly generate one when the instance is first
    created. This is done because after a name is used, it cannot be reused for
    up to [one week](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/delete-instance).

* `master_instance_name` - (Optional) The name of the instance that will act as
    the master in the replication setup. Note, this requires the master to have
    `binary_log_enabled` set, as well as existing backups.

* `project` - (Optional) The ID of the project in which the resource belongs. If it
    is not provided, the provider project is used.

* `replica_configuration` - (Optional) The configuration for replication. The
    configuration is detailed below.
    
* `root_password` - (Optional, [Beta](https://terraform.io/docs/providers/google/guides/provider_versions.html)) Initial root password. Required for MS SQL Server, ignored by MySQL and PostgreSQL.

The required `settings` block supports:

* `tier` - (Required) The machine type to use. See [tiers](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/admin-api/v1beta4/tiers)
    for more details and supported versions. Postgres supports only shared-core machine types such as `db-f1-micro`,
    and custom machine types such as `db-custom-2-13312`. See the [Custom Machine Type Documentation](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/creating-instance-with-custom-machine-type#create) to learn about specifying custom machine types.

* `activation_policy` - (Optional) This specifies when the instance should be
    active. Can be either `ALWAYS`, `NEVER` or `ON_DEMAND`.

* `authorized_gae_applications` - (Optional, Deprecated) This property is only applicable to First Generation instances.
    First Generation instances are now deprecated, see [here](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/upgrade-2nd-gen)
    for information on how to upgrade to Second Generation instances.
    A list of Google App Engine (GAE) project names that are allowed to access this instance.

* `availability_type` - (Optional) This specifies whether a PostgreSQL instance
    should be set up for high availability (`REGIONAL`) or single zone (`ZONAL`).

* `crash_safe_replication` - (Optional, Deprecated) This property is only applicable to First Generation instances.
    First Generation instances are now deprecated, see [here](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/upgrade-2nd-gen)
    for information on how to upgrade to Second Generation instances.
    Specific to read instances, indicates
    when crash-safe replication flags are enabled.

* `disk_autoresize` - (Optional, Default: `true`) Configuration to increase storage size automatically.  Note that future `terraform apply` calls will attempt to resize the disk to the value specified in `disk_size` - if this is set, do not set `disk_size`.

* `disk_size` - (Optional, Default: `10`) The size of data disk, in GB. Size of a running instance cannot be reduced but can be increased.

* `disk_type` - (Optional, Default: `PD_SSD`) The type of data disk: PD_SSD or PD_HDD.

* `pricing_plan` - (Optional) Pricing plan for this instance, can only be `PER_USE`.

* `replication_type` - (Optional, Deprecated) This property is only applicable to First Generation instances.
    First Generation instances are now deprecated, see [here](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/upgrade-2nd-gen)
    for information on how to upgrade to Second Generation instances.
    Replication type for this instance, can be one of `ASYNCHRONOUS` or `SYNCHRONOUS`.

* `user_labels` - (Optional) A set of key/value user label pairs to assign to the instance.

The optional `settings.database_flags` sublist supports:

* `name` - (Required) Name of the flag.

* `value` - (Required) Value of the flag.

The optional `settings.backup_configuration` subblock supports:

* `binary_log_enabled` - (Optional) True if binary logging is enabled. If
    `settings.backup_configuration.enabled` is false, this must be as well.
    Cannot be used with Postgres.

* `enabled` - (Optional) True if backup configuration is enabled.

* `start_time` - (Optional) `HH:MM` format time indicating when backup
    configuration starts.

The optional `settings.ip_configuration` subblock supports:

* `ipv4_enabled` - (Optional) Whether this Cloud SQL instance should be assigned
a public IPV4 address. Either `ipv4_enabled` must be enabled or a
`private_network` must be configured.

* `private_network` - (Optional) The VPC network from which the Cloud SQL
instance is accessible for private IP. For example, projects/myProject/global/networks/default.
Specifying a network enables private IP.
Either `ipv4_enabled` must be enabled or a `private_network` must be configured.
This setting can be updated, but it cannot be removed after it is set.

* `require_ssl` - (Optional) True if mysqld should default to `REQUIRE X509`
    for users connecting over IP.

The optional `settings.ip_configuration.authorized_networks[]` sublist supports:

* `expiration_time` - (Optional) The [RFC 3339](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339)
  formatted date time string indicating when this whitelist expires.

* `name` - (Optional) A name for this whitelist entry.

* `value` - (Required) A CIDR notation IPv4 or IPv6 address that is allowed to
    access this instance. Must be set even if other two attributes are not for
    the whitelist to become active.

The optional `settings.location_preference` subblock supports:

* `follow_gae_application` - (Optional) A GAE application whose zone to remain
    in. Must be in the same region as this instance.

* `zone` - (Optional) The preferred compute engine
    [zone](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/zones?hl=en).

The optional `settings.maintenance_window` subblock for instances declares a one-hour
[maintenance window](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/instance-settings?hl=en#maintenance-window-2ndgen)
when an Instance can automatically restart to apply updates. The maintenance window is specified in UTC time. It supports:

* `day` - (Optional) Day of week (`1-7`), starting on Monday

* `hour` - (Optional) Hour of day (`0-23`), ignored if `day` not set

* `update_track` - (Optional) Receive updates earlier (`canary`) or later
(`stable`)

The optional `replica_configuration` block must have `master_instance_name` set
to work, cannot be updated, and supports:

* `ca_certificate` - (Optional) PEM representation of the trusted CA's x509
    certificate.

* `client_certificate` - (Optional) PEM representation of the slave's x509
    certificate.

* `client_key` - (Optional) PEM representation of the slave's private key. The
    corresponding public key in encoded in the `client_certificate`.

* `connect_retry_interval` - (Optional, Default: 60) The number of seconds
    between connect retries.

* `dump_file_path` - (Optional) Path to a SQL file in GCS from which slave
    instances are created. Format is `gs://bucket/filename`.

* `failover_target` - (Optional) Specifies if the replica is the failover target.
    If the field is set to true the replica will be designated as a failover replica.
    If the master instance fails, the replica instance will be promoted as
    the new master instance.

* `master_heartbeat_period` - (Optional) Time in ms between replication
    heartbeats.

* `password` - (Optional) Password for the replication connection.

* `sslCipher` - (Optional) Permissible ciphers for use in SSL encryption.

* `username` - (Optional) Username for replication connection.

* `verify_server_certificate` - (Optional) True if the master's common name
    value is checked during the SSL handshake.

## Attributes Reference

In addition to the arguments listed above, the following computed attributes are
exported:

* `self_link` - The URI of the created resource.

* `connection_name` - The connection name of the instance to be used in
connection strings. For example, when connecting with [Cloud SQL Proxy](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/connect-admin-proxy).

* `service_account_email_address` - The service account email address assigned to the
instance.

* `ip_address.0.ip_address` - The IPv4 address assigned.

* `ip_address.0.time_to_retire` - The time this IP address will be retired, in RFC
    3339 format.

* `ip_address.0.type` - The type of this IP address.

  * A `PRIMARY` address is an address that can accept incoming connections.

  * An `OUTGOING` address is the source address of connections originating from the instance, if supported.

  * A `PRIVATE` address is an address for an instance which has been configured to use private networking see: [Private IP](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/private-ip).

* `first_ip_address` - The first IPv4 address of any type assigned. This is to
support accessing the [first address in the list in a terraform output](https://github.com/terraform-providers/terraform-provider-google/issues/912)
when the resource is configured with a `count`.

* `public_ip_address` - The first public (`PRIMARY`) IPv4 address assigned. This is
a workaround for an [issue fixed in Terraform 0.12](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/17048)
but also provides a convenient way to access an IP of a specific type without
performing filtering in a Terraform config.

* `private_ip_address` - The first private (`PRIVATE`) IPv4 address assigned. This is
a workaround for an [issue fixed in Terraform 0.12](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/17048)
but also provides a convenient way to access an IP of a specific type without
performing filtering in a Terraform config.

* `settings.version` - Used to make sure changes to the `settings` block are
    atomic.

* `server_ca_cert.0.cert` - The CA Certificate used to connect to the SQL Instance via SSL.

* `server_ca_cert.0.common_name` - The CN valid for the CA Cert.

* `server_ca_cert.0.create_time` - Creation time of the CA Cert.

* `server_ca_cert.0.expiration_time` - Expiration time of the CA Cert.

* `server_ca_cert.0.sha1_fingerprint` - SHA Fingerprint of the CA Cert.

## Timeouts

`google_sql_database_instance` provides the following
[Timeouts](/docs/configuration/resources.html#timeouts) configuration options:

- `create` - Default is 20 minutes.
- `update` - Default is 20 minutes.
- `delete` - Default is 20 minutes.

## Import

Database instances can be imported using one of any of these accepted formats:

```
$ terraform import google_sql_database_instance.master projects/{{project}}/instances/{{name}}
$ terraform import google_sql_database_instance.master {{project}}/{{name}}
$ terraform import google_sql_database_instance.master {{name}}

```

~> **NOTE:** Some fields (such as `replica_configuration`) won't show a diff if they are unset in
config and set on the server.
When importing, double-check that your config has all the fields set that you expect- just seeing
no diff isn't sufficient to know that your config could reproduce the imported resource.

Commit message:

Add encryption_key_name to google_sql_database_instance.

third_party/terraform/website/docs/r/sql_database_instance.html.markdown, after:

---
subcategory: "Cloud SQL"
layout: "google"
page_title: "Google: google_sql_database_instance"
sidebar_current: "docs-google-sql-database-instance"
description: |-
  Creates a new SQL database instance in Google Cloud SQL.
---

# google\_sql\_database\_instance

Creates a new Google SQL Database Instance. For more information, see the [official documentation](https://cloud.google.com/sql/),
or the [JSON API](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/admin-api/v1beta4/instances).

~> **NOTE on `google_sql_database_instance`:** - First-generation instances have been
deprecated and should no longer be created, see [upgrade docs](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/upgrade-2nd-gen)
for more details.
To upgrade your First-generation instance, update your Terraform config that the instance has
* `settings.ip_configuration.ipv4_enabled=true`
* `settings.backup_configuration.enabled=true`
* `settings.backup_configuration.binary_log_enabled=true`.  
Apply the terraform config, then upgrade the instance in the console as described in the documentation.
Once upgraded, update the following attributes in your Terraform config to the correct value according to
the above documentation:
* `region`
* `database_version` (if applicable)
* `tier`  
Remove any fields that are not applicable to Second-generation instances:
* `settings.crash_safe_replication`
* `settings.replication_type`
* `settings.authorized_gae_applications`
And change values to appropriate values for Second-generation instances for:
* `activation_policy` ("ON_DEMAND" is no longer an option)
* `pricing_plan` ("PER_USE" is now the only valid option)
Change `settings.backup_configuration.enabled` attribute back to its desired value and apply as necessary.

~> **NOTE on `google_sql_database_instance`:** - Second-generation instances include a
default 'root'@'%' user with no password. This user will be deleted by Terraform on
instance creation. You should use `google_sql_user` to define a custom user with
a restricted host and strong password.

## Example Usage

### SQL Second Generation Instance

```hcl
resource "google_sql_database_instance" "master" {
  name             = "master-instance"
  database_version = "POSTGRES_11"
  region           = "us-central1"

  settings {
    # Second-generation instance tiers are based on the machine
    # type. See argument reference below.
    tier = "db-f1-micro"
  }
}
```

### Granular restriction of network access

```hcl
resource "google_compute_instance" "apps" {
  count        = 8
  name         = "apps-${count.index + 1}"
  machine_type = "f1-micro"

  boot_disk {
    initialize_params {
      image = "ubuntu-os-cloud/ubuntu-1804-lts"
    }
  }

  network_interface {
    network = "default"

    access_config {
      // Ephemeral IP
    }
  }
}

resource "random_id" "db_name_suffix" {
  byte_length = 4
}

locals {
  onprem = ["192.168.1.2", "192.168.2.3"]
}

resource "google_sql_database_instance" "postgres" {
  name             = "postgres-instance-${random_id.db_name_suffix.hex}"
  database_version = "POSTGRES_11"

  settings {
    tier = "db-f1-micro"

    ip_configuration {

      dynamic "authorized_networks" {
        for_each = google_compute_instance.apps
        iterator = apps

        content {
          name  = apps.value.name
          value = apps.value.network_interface.0.access_config.0.nat_ip
        }
      }

      dynamic "authorized_networks" {
        for_each = local.onprem
        iterator = onprem

        content {
          name  = "onprem-${onprem.key}"
          value = onprem.value
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Private IP Instance
~> **NOTE**: For private IP instance setup, note that the `google_sql_database_instance` does not actually interpolate values from `google_service_networking_connection`. You must explicitly add a `depends_on`reference as shown below.

```hcl
resource "google_compute_network" "private_network" {
  provider = google-beta

  name = "private-network"
}

resource "google_compute_global_address" "private_ip_address" {
  provider = google-beta

  name          = "private-ip-address"
  purpose       = "VPC_PEERING"
  address_type  = "INTERNAL"
  prefix_length = 16
  network       = google_compute_network.private_network.self_link
}

resource "google_service_networking_connection" "private_vpc_connection" {
  provider = google-beta

  network                 = google_compute_network.private_network.self_link
  service                 = "servicenetworking.googleapis.com"
  reserved_peering_ranges = [google_compute_global_address.private_ip_address.name]
}

resource "random_id" "db_name_suffix" {
  byte_length = 4
}

resource "google_sql_database_instance" "instance" {
  provider = google-beta

  name   = "private-instance-${random_id.db_name_suffix.hex}"
  region = "us-central1"

  depends_on = [google_service_networking_connection.private_vpc_connection]

  settings {
    tier = "db-f1-micro"
    ip_configuration {
      ipv4_enabled    = false
      private_network = google_compute_network.private_network.self_link
    }
  }
}

provider "google-beta" {
  region = "us-central1"
  zone   = "us-central1-a"
}
```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `region` - (Optional) The region the instance will sit in. Note, Cloud SQL is not
    available in all regions - choose from one of the options listed [here](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/instance-locations).
    A valid region must be provided to use this resource. If a region is not provided in the resource definition,
    the provider region will be used instead, but this will be an apply-time error for instances if the provider
    region is not supported with Cloud SQL. If you choose not to provide the `region` argument for this resource,
    make sure you understand this.

* `settings` - (Required) The settings to use for the database. The
    configuration is detailed below.

- - -

* `database_version` - (Optional, Default: `MYSQL_5_6`) The MySQL, PostgreSQL or
SQL Server (beta) version to use. Supported values include `MYSQL_5_6`,
`MYSQL_5_7`, `POSTGRES_9_6`,`POSTGRES_11`, `SQLSERVER_2017_STANDARD`,
`SQLSERVER_2017_ENTERPRISE`, `SQLSERVER_2017_EXPRESS`, `SQLSERVER_2017_WEB`.
[Database Version Policies](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/sqlserver/db-versions)
includes an up-to-date reference of supported versions.

* `name` - (Optional, Computed) The name of the instance. If the name is left
    blank, Terraform will randomly generate one when the instance is first
    created. This is done because after a name is used, it cannot be reused for
    up to [one week](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/delete-instance).

* `master_instance_name` - (Optional) The name of the instance that will act as
    the master in the replication setup. Note, this requires the master to have
    `binary_log_enabled` set, as well as existing backups.

* `project` - (Optional) The ID of the project in which the resource belongs. If it
    is not provided, the provider project is used.

* `replica_configuration` - (Optional) The configuration for replication. The
    configuration is detailed below.
    
* `root_password` - (Optional, [Beta](https://terraform.io/docs/providers/google/guides/provider_versions.html)) Initial root password. Required for MS SQL Server, ignored by MySQL and PostgreSQL.

* `encryption_key_name` - (Optional, [Beta](https://terraform.io/docs/providers/google/guides/provider_versions.html))
    The full path to the encryption key used for the CMEK disk encryption.  Setting
    up disk encryption currently requires manual steps outside of Terraform.
    The provided key must be in the same region as the SQL instance.  In order
    to use this feature, a special kind of service account must be created and
    granted permission on this key.  This step can currently only be done
    manually, please see [this step](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/configure-cmek#service-account).
    That service account needs the `Cloud KMS > Cloud KMS CryptoKey Encrypter/Decrypter` role on your
    key - please see [this step](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/configure-cmek#grantkey).

The required `settings` block supports:

* `tier` - (Required) The machine type to use. See [tiers](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/admin-api/v1beta4/tiers)
    for more details and supported versions. Postgres supports only shared-core machine types such as `db-f1-micro`,
    and custom machine types such as `db-custom-2-13312`. See the [Custom Machine Type Documentation](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/creating-instance-with-custom-machine-type#create) to learn about specifying custom machine types.

* `activation_policy` - (Optional) This specifies when the instance should be
    active. Can be either `ALWAYS`, `NEVER` or `ON_DEMAND`.

* `authorized_gae_applications` - (Optional, Deprecated) This property is only applicable to First Generation instances.
    First Generation instances are now deprecated, see [here](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/upgrade-2nd-gen)
    for information on how to upgrade to Second Generation instances.
    A list of Google App Engine (GAE) project names that are allowed to access this instance.

* `availability_type` - (Optional) This specifies whether a PostgreSQL instance
    should be set up for high availability (`REGIONAL`) or single zone (`ZONAL`).

* `crash_safe_replication` - (Optional, Deprecated) This property is only applicable to First Generation instances.
    First Generation instances are now deprecated, see [here](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/upgrade-2nd-gen)
    for information on how to upgrade to Second Generation instances.
    Specific to read instances, indicates
    when crash-safe replication flags are enabled.

* `disk_autoresize` - (Optional, Default: `true`) Configuration to increase storage size automatically.  Note that future `terraform apply` calls will attempt to resize the disk to the value specified in `disk_size` - if this is set, do not set `disk_size`.

* `disk_size` - (Optional, Default: `10`) The size of data disk, in GB. Size of a running instance cannot be reduced but can be increased.

* `disk_type` - (Optional, Default: `PD_SSD`) The type of data disk: PD_SSD or PD_HDD.

* `pricing_plan` - (Optional) Pricing plan for this instance, can only be `PER_USE`.

* `replication_type` - (Optional, Deprecated) This property is only applicable to First Generation instances.
    First Generation instances are now deprecated, see [here](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/upgrade-2nd-gen)
    for information on how to upgrade to Second Generation instances.
    Replication type for this instance, can be one of `ASYNCHRONOUS` or `SYNCHRONOUS`.

* `user_labels` - (Optional) A set of key/value user label pairs to assign to the instance.

The optional `settings.database_flags` sublist supports:

* `name` - (Required) Name of the flag.

* `value` - (Required) Value of the flag.

The optional `settings.backup_configuration` subblock supports:

* `binary_log_enabled` - (Optional) True if binary logging is enabled. If
    `settings.backup_configuration.enabled` is false, this must be as well.
    Cannot be used with Postgres.

* `enabled` - (Optional) True if backup configuration is enabled.

* `start_time` - (Optional) `HH:MM` format time indicating when backup
    configuration starts.

The optional `settings.ip_configuration` subblock supports:

* `ipv4_enabled` - (Optional) Whether this Cloud SQL instance should be assigned
a public IPV4 address. Either `ipv4_enabled` must be enabled or a
`private_network` must be configured.

* `private_network` - (Optional) The VPC network from which the Cloud SQL
instance is accessible for private IP. For example, projects/myProject/global/networks/default.
Specifying a network enables private IP.
Either `ipv4_enabled` must be enabled or a `private_network` must be configured.
This setting can be updated, but it cannot be removed after it is set.

* `require_ssl` - (Optional) True if mysqld should default to `REQUIRE X509`
    for users connecting over IP.

The optional `settings.ip_configuration.authorized_networks[]` sublist supports:

* `expiration_time` - (Optional) The [RFC 3339](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339)
  formatted date time string indicating when this whitelist expires.

* `name` - (Optional) A name for this whitelist entry.

* `value` - (Required) A CIDR notation IPv4 or IPv6 address that is allowed to
    access this instance. Must be set even if other two attributes are not for
    the whitelist to become active.

The optional `settings.location_preference` subblock supports:

* `follow_gae_application` - (Optional) A GAE application whose zone to remain
    in. Must be in the same region as this instance.

* `zone` - (Optional) The preferred compute engine
    [zone](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/zones?hl=en).

The optional `settings.maintenance_window` subblock for instances declares a one-hour
[maintenance window](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/instance-settings?hl=en#maintenance-window-2ndgen)
when an Instance can automatically restart to apply updates. The maintenance window is specified in UTC time. It supports:

* `day` - (Optional) Day of week (`1-7`), starting on Monday

* `hour` - (Optional) Hour of day (`0-23`), ignored if `day` not set

* `update_track` - (Optional) Receive updates earlier (`canary`) or later
(`stable`)

The optional `replica_configuration` block must have `master_instance_name` set
to work, cannot be updated, and supports:

* `ca_certificate` - (Optional) PEM representation of the trusted CA's x509
    certificate.

* `client_certificate` - (Optional) PEM representation of the slave's x509
    certificate.

* `client_key` - (Optional) PEM representation of the slave's private key. The
    corresponding public key in encoded in the `client_certificate`.

* `connect_retry_interval` - (Optional, Default: 60) The number of seconds
    between connect retries.

* `dump_file_path` - (Optional) Path to a SQL file in GCS from which slave
    instances are created. Format is `gs://bucket/filename`.

* `failover_target` - (Optional) Specifies if the replica is the failover target.
    If the field is set to true the replica will be designated as a failover replica.
    If the master instance fails, the replica instance will be promoted as
    the new master instance.

* `master_heartbeat_period` - (Optional) Time in ms between replication
    heartbeats.

* `password` - (Optional) Password for the replication connection.

* `sslCipher` - (Optional) Permissible ciphers for use in SSL encryption.

* `username` - (Optional) Username for replication connection.

* `verify_server_certificate` - (Optional) True if the master's common name
    value is checked during the SSL handshake.

## Attributes Reference

In addition to the arguments listed above, the following computed attributes are
exported:

* `self_link` - The URI of the created resource.

* `connection_name` - The connection name of the instance to be used in
connection strings. For example, when connecting with [Cloud SQL Proxy](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/connect-admin-proxy).

* `service_account_email_address` - The service account email address assigned to the
instance.

* `ip_address.0.ip_address` - The IPv4 address assigned.

* `ip_address.0.time_to_retire` - The time this IP address will be retired, in RFC
    3339 format.

* `ip_address.0.type` - The type of this IP address.

  * A `PRIMARY` address is an address that can accept incoming connections.

  * An `OUTGOING` address is the source address of connections originating from the instance, if supported.

  * A `PRIVATE` address is an address for an instance which has been configured to use private networking see: [Private IP](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/private-ip).

* `first_ip_address` - The first IPv4 address of any type assigned. This is to
support accessing the [first address in the list in a terraform output](https://github.com/terraform-providers/terraform-provider-google/issues/912)
when the resource is configured with a `count`.

* `public_ip_address` - The first public (`PRIMARY`) IPv4 address assigned. This is
a workaround for an [issue fixed in Terraform 0.12](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/17048)
but also provides a convenient way to access an IP of a specific type without
performing filtering in a Terraform config.

* `private_ip_address` - The first private (`PRIVATE`) IPv4 address assigned. This is
a workaround for an [issue fixed in Terraform 0.12](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform/issues/17048)
but also provides a convenient way to access an IP of a specific type without
performing filtering in a Terraform config.

* `settings.version` - Used to make sure changes to the `settings` block are
    atomic.

* `server_ca_cert.0.cert` - The CA Certificate used to connect to the SQL Instance via SSL.

* `server_ca_cert.0.common_name` - The CN valid for the CA Cert.

* `server_ca_cert.0.create_time` - Creation time of the CA Cert.

* `server_ca_cert.0.expiration_time` - Expiration time of the CA Cert.

* `server_ca_cert.0.sha1_fingerprint` - SHA Fingerprint of the CA Cert.

## Timeouts

`google_sql_database_instance` provides the following
[Timeouts](/docs/configuration/resources.html#timeouts) configuration options:

- `create` - Default is 20 minutes.
- `update` - Default is 20 minutes.
- `delete` - Default is 20 minutes.

## Import

Database instances can be imported using one of any of these accepted formats:

```
$ terraform import google_sql_database_instance.master projects/{{project}}/instances/{{name}}
$ terraform import google_sql_database_instance.master {{project}}/{{name}}
$ terraform import google_sql_database_instance.master {{name}}

```

~> **NOTE:** Some fields (such as `replica_configuration`) won't show a diff if they are unset in
config and set on the server.
When importing, double-check that your config has all the fields set that you expect- just seeing
no diff isn't sufficient to know that your config could reproduce the imported resource.
